Area:  Web App Briefing
Introduction
Area is a platform that enables residents to report and share suspicious, dangerous, disruptive, or criminal activities in order to warn others. Every report strengthens a vigilant and connected community.
Users can submit a report in the same way accidents are flagged on Waze. Reports can also be viewed on an interactive map. click on the map icon to read all information or select a report in the list view.
The Waze app is a good start for UI and look and feel. Map in top, list below with sorting and filter options. Circular button to add a report. (plus sign). and a drawer for the list view. 
Main objectives
Develop a fully functional dashboard + real map. A proof of concept (POC) to present the idea to investors. V1 will not be deployed in a live environment with real users; all usage will be limited to testing purposes only. 

- It must have a charming design. Not the looks of a crime database. 
- Tester must be able to make a report and make sure the icon is on the map and in the list
- tester can open a report to see all the data is available
- Tester can filter categories on or off
- Everything must be fullt funcional (map, zoom, scroll, list items, filters etc) 
Categories of Reports
Personal Harassment
Physical aggression (fighting, restraining)
Unwanted behavior (catcalling, sexual remarks, racism,)
Threats
Dangerous animals (e.g., unleashed dogs)
Suspicious Activity
Strange or unusual behavior
Suspicious noises
Dangerous situations
Objects blocking the road
Slippery surfaces
other
Degradation of Public Spaces
Littering
Illegal dumping
Nighttime noise
Dog fouling
Graffiti
Vandalism
Theft & Vandalism of Private Property
Bike theft
Property damage
Porch piracy
Cybercrime
Pickpocketing
Status reports
(All level 0 reports) 
Map
Live incident tracking: Pins display active reports, similar to Waze.
Filter options: By category or tag to identify patterns (e.g., theft hotspots).
Scalable icons: Detailed icons when zoomed in; simple markers at city level.
List View
Filterable, sortable list format of reports based on category and all the available data. 
For example a user must be able to see all theft reports sorted by distance. Or all incidents conserning the degradation of the plublic space. 
This list is very essential for incidents without a geolocation, but it must contain also geo tagged reports.

Adding a report (UGC) 
Simple, fast reporting process contains: 
In this order:
Button to make start the report sequence
Main Category selection +  sub-category selection.
Written description of the incident.
Optional image upload for credibility.
“Here" and "Now" shortcut automatically uses current location and time. Location is optional because cybercrime is has often no location
Pin placement (automatic GPS coordinates or manual pin placement, no address) 
Indicate if police/authorities were already contacted.
Clarify whether the report is first-hand (the user personally witnessed it) or second-hand (based on an external source such as press or a friend). 
In the user interface, add a clear question such as: “Were you personally involved in this incident?” Options: (1) Yes, I was the victim (the event happened to me or my property), (2) No, I am reporting something that happened to someone else (friend, family, or a stranger).
Make report button
Confirmation and thank-you message.

Users: Identification & Authentication
V1: Open access (no login, admin panel also open) for testing. 